---
layout: post
title:  "1-Query Data"
date:   2021-09-01 09:04:08 +0530
categories: postgres
permalink: /:categories/:title
---


### Topic to Cover 
	0. order of execution 
	1. Select – show you how to query data from a single table.
	2. Column aliases – learn how to assign temporary names to columns or expressions in a query.
	3. Order By – guide you on how to sort the result set returned from a query.
	4. Select Distinct  – provide you a clause that removes duplicate rows in the result set.

#### order of execution 
FROM, JOIN,WHERE, GROUP BY, HAVING, SELECT, DISTINCT, ORDER BY and LIMIT clauses

#### select statement
		- Select distinct rows using DISTINCT operator.
		- Sort rows usingORDER BY clause.
		- Filter rows using WHERE clause.
		- Select a subset of rows from a table using LIMIT or FETCH clause.
		- Group rows into groups using GROUP BY clause.
		- Filter groups using HAVING clause.
		- Join with other tables using joins such as INNER JOIN, LEFT JOIN, FULL OUTER JOIN, CROSS JOIN clauses.
		- Perform set operations using UNION, INTERSECT, and EXCEPT.
	
		> Why * is not good?
		```
			select * from table
		```
		- it is not a good practice to use the asterisk (*) in the SELECT statement when you embed SQL statements in the application code like Python, Java, Node.js, or PHP due to the following reasons:
			- __Database performance__. Suppose you have a table with many columns and a lot of data, the SELECT statement with the asterisk (*) shorthand will select data from all the columns of the table, which may not be necessary to the application.
			- __Application performance__. Retrieving unnecessary data from the database increases the traffic between the database server and application server. In consequence, your applications may be slower to respond and less scalable.
			
	
		> Concatantion operator ||
		```
			select firsrname || ' ' || lastname
			from table
		```
	
#### Alias
		
		- Alias name with out space
		```
			SELECT column_name AS alias_name
			FROM table_name;
			
			SELECT 
			   first_name, 
			   last_name surname
			FROM customer;
		```
		- Alias name with space	
		```
			SELECT
				first_name || ' ' || last_name "full name"
			FROM
				customer;
		```
		
		- ALias for table 
			```
				SELECT
					e.first_name employee,
					m .first_name manager
				FROM
					employee e
				INNER JOIN employee m 
					ON m.employee_id = e.manager_id
				ORDER BY manager;
			```
#### order by
		- multiple column sorting
		```
		SELECT
			first_name,
			last_name
		FROM
			customer
		ORDER BY
			first_name ASC,
			last_name DESC;
		```
		
		
		- Sort by expressions
		```
		SELECT 
			first_name,
			LENGTH(first_name) len
		FROM
			customer
		ORDER BY 
			len DESC;
		```
		
		
		- Sort if null is present 
			- When you sort rows that contains NULL, you can specify the order of NULL with other non-null values by using the 
				- NULLS FIRST 
				- NULLS LAST 
		```
		SELECT num
		FROM sort_demo
		ORDER BY num NULLS FIRST;
		```
			
		1. sorting based on single column 
		2. sorting based on multiple column		
			- you need to place a comma (,) between two columns or expressions to separate them.
		3. use the ASC option to sort rows in ascending order 
		4. use the DESC option to sort rows in descending order.
		5. by default ORDER BY uses ASC by default.
		
#### Distinct
		- select based on single column
			- fetch distinct rows based on one column
				``` 
					SELECT
					   DISTINCT column1
					FROM
					   table_name;
				```
		- select based on multiple column
			- fetch distinct rows based on combination of column
				```
					SELECT
					   DISTINCT column1, column2
					FROM
					   table_name;
				```
		- DISTINCT ON (expression) to keep the “first” row of each group of duplicates 	
			
				```
				SELECT
				   DISTINCT ON (column1) column_alias,
				   column2
				FROM
				   table_name
				ORDER BY
				   column1,
				   column2;
				```